Liriel Baenre

Liriel Baenre the beautiful, flippant, and sardonic daughter of Gromph— originally belonged to House Vandree, before her talent for arcane magic, and spellcasting in particular, was discovered by her father. Taken into the ranks of the Baenres, Gromph still sought to keep her separated from the influence of his sisters and mother, and he sent her to stay with a minor House to hone her magical talent rather than study to be a priestess. Liriel grew independent and soon found the restrictions of Arach-Tinilith, where she was subsequently enrolled, too binding. Using a book given to her by her father, Liriel traveled to the surface lands where she met drow followers of Eilistraee, the Dark Maiden of benevolent drow. Caught up in the plots of the Vhaeraunite merchant-turned-mercenary band the Dragon's Hoard, Liriel—a powerful mage, warrior and ex-priestess of Lolth—led a struggle against them with the help of her friends—a human barbarian named Fyodor of Rashemen, the mutant two-headed deep dragon Zz'Pzora, and the Eilistraeean forces of Qilué of the Seven Sisters.

Settling for a life on the surface, Liriel found herself hunted by her House and father. She traveled across the ocean with Fyodor, who became her lover and friend, and a pirate named Hrolf, who took her in as a daughter. Liriel's adventures caused drastic consequences for all drow, including the return of her aunt Quenthel to her old House, as well as allowing drow magic to function on the surface.

Liriel had a sardonic and witty personality, with a fondness for practical jokes. The rare moments where she adopts a serious demeanour is when she is in combat and is forced to become the a deadly warrior-mage

Windwalker
The Windwalker was a magical artifact of the ancient Rus, who brought it to the eastern parts of Faerun, where their descendants, the Rashemi, continued to use it. 
The Windwalker amulet was created by the Rus to help them cast their ancient form of magic, known as rune lore, and they brought it with them to their new homes. It passed down through generations, eventually coming into the hands of the Wychlaran, who adapted the artifact's enchantment to store the power of another ancient form of magic, one evolved from rune lore, called "Place Magic." Unfortunately, with the passing of time, the knowledge of this power was forgotten


BIO Later
She allied herself with the pirate Fyodor of Rashemin in an attempt, ultimately, to bring into being a more powerful form of rune magic, one that would allow the use of drow equipment on the surface without degradation, everywhere, and permanently] To activate the magic, she traveled with Fyodor to Ruathym in order to carve a rune into the bark of Yggdrasil's Child. In the process, she was able to control Fyodor's uncontrolled berserker rages.[4] Liriel and Fyodor then traveled to Rashemen to complete Fyodor's quest. Using the power of the Windwalker, Liriel was able to set free the bound spirits, thus returning the land to normal and destroying the Windwalker in the process.